README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Vault Integration
The Kubernetes-Vault project allows pods to automatically receive a Vault token using Vault's [AppRole auth backend](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/approle.html).

![flow diagram](flow-diagram.png)

## Highlights
* Secure by default. The Kubernetes-Vault controller does not allow using root tokens to authenticate against Vault.
* Prometheus metrics endpoint over http or https, with optional TLS client authentication.
* Supports using Vault as a CA or an external CA for all components with TLS support.
* High availability mode using Raft, so that if the leader goes down, a follower can take over immediately.
* Peer discovery using Kubernetes services and endpoints and gossip to propagate peer changes across the cluster.

## Prerequisites:
* Vault should be 0.6.3 and above.
* You must use Kubernetes 1.4.0 and above as we rely on init containers (in beta) to accept the token.
* You must generate a periodic token with the correct policy to generate `secret_id`s using the AppRole backend.
* The Kubernetes-Vault controller uses the Kubernetes service account to watch for new pods. This service account must have the appropriate permissions.
* Your app should use a [Vault client](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/libraries.html) to renew the token and any secrets you request from Vault.
* You should configure Vault to use HTTPS, so that the authentication token and any other secrets cannot be sniffed.

## Get started
To run Kubernetes-Vault on your cluster, follow the [quick start guide](quick-start.md).

## Best practices
See our list of [best practices](best-practices.md).

## Token format
The token information is encoded as JSON and written to a file called `vault-token`. Here's an example of what it looks like:

```json
{
   "clientToken":"91526d9b-4850-3405-02a8-aa29e74e17a5",
   "accessor":"476ea048-ded5-4d07-eeea-938c6b4e43ec",
   "leaseDuration":3600,
   "renewable":true,
   "vaultAddr":"https://vault:8200"
}
```

You application should parse the JSON representation and renew the `clientToken` using the `leaseDuration` as a guide.

If you ask the init container to not login using the `role_id` and `secret_id` to retrieve the token by setting the
`RETRIEVE_TOKEN` environment variable of the init container to `false`, the `secret_id` and any related information is
encoded as JSON written to a file called `vault-secret-id` instead. Here's an example of what it looks like:
 
```json
{
    "roleId":"313b0821-4ff6-1df8-54dd-c3eea5d3b8b1",
    "secretId":"3c3ebf1f-8fa5-8cce-e3e8-f769e386bd4b",
    "accessor":"5c8b7cb5-5d8e-0dbf-be27-12604f5b64aa",
    "vaultAddr":"https://vault:8200"
}
```

If you choose to use Kubernetes-vault in this mode, it will be your application's responsibility to use the `secret_id`
and `role_id` pair to login to the Vault server and retrieve an auth token.

## CA bundle
If you are connecting to Vault over https (highly recommended for production), you will find the CA bundle for Vault in
the file `ca.crt`. Use the CA bundle when connecting to Vault using your application, so that the identity of Vault is
verified.

## Configuration
The project consists of 2 containers, a controller container that watches the Kubernetes cluster and pushes `secret_id`s
to pods and an init container that receives the `secret_id` and exchanges it for an auth token. The controller is
configured using a YAML file and the init container uses environment variables. The init container also requires
configuration using Kubernetes annotations.

For full examples of configuration files, check out the ConfigMaps in the [quick start](deployments/quick-start/kubernetes-vault.yaml) and [secured](deployments/secured-external-ca/kubernetes-vault.yaml) examples.

### Kubernetes-Vault controller configuration
The Kubernetes-Vault is configured using a YAML file. We recommend using a ConfigMap to mount the file and any other files
( such as certificates and private keys, if using an external CA) into the controller's pod.

The controller automatically expands any environment variables used in the configuration specified using the `$VARIABLE` or 
`${VARIABLE}` notation. For example, if you set `raftDir: ${MY_DIR}` and set the `$MY_DIR` environment variable to `/tmp`, it 
 expands to: `raftDir: /tmp`.
 
By default, the controller looks for configuration in `kubernetes-vault.yml` in the current working directory, but you
can override this by setting the `-config` flag with the absolute path to your config file.

The available configuration options in the config file are:

#### raftDir *(optional)*
The location where raft data should be stored. By default this is: `/var/lib/kubernetes-vault/`.

If you want to set a custom location:
```yaml
raftDir: /my/custom/raft/dir
```

#### vault *(required)*
Settings for communicating with the Vault server. It contains nested properties:

* addr *(required)*
The address of the Vault server. For example, `http://vault:8200`.

* token *(required)*
A renewable and periodic Vault token to be used by the Kubernetes-Vault controller.

* tls *(optional)*
If Vault is secured using TLS (https), then you need to set one of the following:

  * vaultCABackends *(optional)*
  If Vault uses itself as a certificate authority, provide the list of root PKI backends here.

  * caCert *(optional)*
  If Vault uses an external CA, provide the absolute path to a file containing the CA certificates in PEM format.

##### Example (using Vault as a CA):
```yaml
vault:
  addr: http://vault:8200
  token: 91526d9b-4850-3405-02a8-aa29e74e17a5
  tls:
    vaultCABackends:
      - root-ca
```

#### kubernetes *(required)*
Settings for talking to the Kubernetes API server.

* watchNamespace *(required)*
The namespace to watch for newly created pods. If you want to watch for pods across multiple namespaces, you can prefix
it with `~` followed by a regex pattern. For example, using `~^(staging|default)$` will watch for pods in both the
`staging` and `default` namespaces.

  **IMPORTANT**: If you are using regex to watch multiple namespaces, make sure `vault.addr` is set to the FULL DNS name of
  your Vault server. For example: `https://vault.default:8200` or `https://vault.staging:8200`. This is because the Vault
  address is pushed to the watched pods, and those pods will only be able to communicate with pods outside their own
  namespace using the FULL DNS name.

* serviceNamespace *(required)*
The Kubernetes namespace the Kubernetes-Vault controller's service is in. This parameter and the `service` parameter 
is used to discover other Kubernetes-Vault controllers to form a cluster.

* service *(required)*
The Kubernetes service being used by the Kubernetes-Vault controller. Used in conjunction with `serviceNamespace` so
that it can discover other Kubernetes-Vault controllers to form a cluster.

##### Example:
```yaml
kubernetes:
  # For watchNamespace, you can use a regex by prefixing it with ~. For example: ~^(staging|default)$
  watchNamespace: default
  # Note the use of an environment variable here, which will be expanded by the controller
  serviceNamespace: ${KUBERNETES_NAMESPACE}
  service: kubernetes-vault
```

#### prometheus *(optional)*
Configuration for the Prometheus endpoint.

* tls *(optional)*
TLS configuration for the Prometheus endpoint. You can use Vault as the CA or an external CA. If using Vault as the CA,
you must set `vaultCertBackend`, `vaultCertRole`, `vaultCABackends`. Otherwise, set `certFile`, `certKey`, and `caCert`
if using an external CA.

  * vaultCertBackend *(optional)*
The Vault PKI backend to be used to issue certificates for securing the Prometheus metrics endpoint.

  * vaultCertRole *(optional)*
The Vault PKI role to be used to issue certificates for securing the Prometheus metrics endpoint.

  * vaultCABackends *(optional)*
If you want to enable client TLS authentication against the Prometheus scrappers, set the list of Vault PKI backend
being used as a certificate authority for those scrappers here.

  * certFile *(optional)*
If using an external CA, provide the absolute path to the certificate in PEM format here.

  * certKey *(optional)*
If using an external CA, provide the absolute path to the key for the certificate in PEM format here.

  * caCert *(optional)*
If you want to enable client TLS authentication against the Prometheus scrappers, provide the absolute path to the file
containing the root certificates in PEM format here.

##### Example:
```yaml
prometheus:
  tls:
    # Note that vaultCABackends is not set, so TLS client authentication for the scrappers will not be 
    # enabled.
    vaultCertBackend: intermediate-ca
    vaultCertRole: kubernetes-vault
```

### Init container configuration
The init containers are configured using environment variables and Kubernetes annotations.

#### Environment variables

| Environment Variable |                                                            Description                                                            | Required |          Default Value           |                Example                 |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| CREDENTIALS_PATH     | The location where the Vault token and CA Bundle (if it exists) will be written.                                                  | `no`     | `/var/run/secrets/boostport.com` | `/var/run/my/path`                     |
| LOG_LEVEL            | The log level. Valid values are `debug` and `error`.                                                                              | `no`     | `debug`                          | `debug`                                |
| RETRIEVE_TOKEN       | Whether to login using the `secret_id` and `role_id` to retrieve the auth token.                                                  | `no`     | `true`                           | `false`                                |
| TIMEOUT              | Maximum amount of time to wait for the wrapped `secret_id` to be pushed. Valid time units are `ns`, `us`, `ms`, `s`, `m` and `h`. | `no`     | `5m`                             | `120s`                                 |
| VAULT_ROLE_ID        | The Vault role id.                                                                                                                | `yes`    | `none`                           | `313b0821-4ff6-1df8-54dd-c3eea5d3b8b1` |

#### Pod annotations

| Annotation                              | Description                         | Required  | Default Value | Example       |
|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------|---------------|---------------|
| pod.boostport.com/vault-approle         | The Vault role.                     | `yes`     | `none`        | `sample-app`  |
| pod.boostport.com/vault-init-container  | The name of the init container.     | `yes`     | `none`        | `install`     |

## Metrics
Kubernetes-Vault uses [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) for metrics reporting. It exposes these metrics over the `/metrics` endpoint over http or https.

For more information about metrics, read the guide on [metrics](metrics.md).

## Troubleshooting
See the [troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting.md).

## Development
PRs are highly welcomed!

We use glide as our dependency manager. To work on the project, install glide, then run `glide install --strip-vendor`.

Docker is used to build the binaries, so you need to have docker installed.

The project also comes with a few scripts to simplify building binaries and docker containers and pushing docker containers.
Simply run `build.sh` to build the binaries. To build and push images, simplify run `build-images.sh`.
Running `build-images.sh` also automatically runs `build.sh`.

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2 License.

Commit message:

Add option (`UNWRAP_SECRET`) to keep secret wrapped

README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Vault Integration
The Kubernetes-Vault project allows pods to automatically receive a Vault token using Vault's [AppRole auth backend](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/approle.html).

![flow diagram](flow-diagram.png)

## Highlights
* Secure by default. The Kubernetes-Vault controller does not allow using root tokens to authenticate against Vault.
* Prometheus metrics endpoint over http or https, with optional TLS client authentication.
* Supports using Vault as a CA or an external CA for all components with TLS support.
* High availability mode using Raft, so that if the leader goes down, a follower can take over immediately.
* Peer discovery using Kubernetes services and endpoints and gossip to propagate peer changes across the cluster.

## Prerequisites:
* Vault should be 0.6.3 and above.
* You must use Kubernetes 1.4.0 and above as we rely on init containers (in beta) to accept the token.
* You must generate a periodic token with the correct policy to generate `secret_id`s using the AppRole backend.
* The Kubernetes-Vault controller uses the Kubernetes service account to watch for new pods. This service account must have the appropriate permissions.
* Your app should use a [Vault client](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/libraries.html) to renew the token and any secrets you request from Vault.
* You should configure Vault to use HTTPS, so that the authentication token and any other secrets cannot be sniffed.

## Get started
To run Kubernetes-Vault on your cluster, follow the [quick start guide](quick-start.md).

## Best practices
See our list of [best practices](best-practices.md).

## Token format
The token information is encoded as JSON and written to a file called `vault-token`. Here's an example of what it looks like:

```json
{
   "clientToken":"91526d9b-4850-3405-02a8-aa29e74e17a5",
   "accessor":"476ea048-ded5-4d07-eeea-938c6b4e43ec",
   "leaseDuration":3600,
   "renewable":true,
   "vaultAddr":"https://vault:8200"
}
```

Your application should parse the JSON representation and renew the `clientToken` using the `leaseDuration` as a guide.

If you ask the init container to not login using the `role_id` and `secret_id` to retrieve the token by setting the
`RETRIEVE_TOKEN` environment variable of the init container to `false`, the `secret_id` and any related information is
encoded as JSON written to a file called `vault-secret-id` instead. Here's an example of what it looks like:
 
```json
{
    "roleId":"313b0821-4ff6-1df8-54dd-c3eea5d3b8b1",
    "secretId":"3c3ebf1f-8fa5-8cce-e3e8-f769e386bd4b",
    "accessor":"5c8b7cb5-5d8e-0dbf-be27-12604f5b64aa",
    "vaultAddr":"https://vault:8200"
}
```

If you choose to use Kubernetes-vault in this mode, it will be your application's responsibility to use the `secret_id`
and `role_id` pair to login to the Vault server and retrieve an auth token.

Alternatively, you can choose to not have the init container unwrap the secret, and leave that responsibility up to your app. To do this, set `UNWRAP_SECRET` to `false`, and the wrapped `secret_id` and any related information will be encoded as JSON and written to a file called `vault-wrapped-secret-id`. Here's an example of what it looks like:

```json
{
   "roleId":"313b0821-4ff6-1df8-54dd-c3eea5d3b8b1",
   "wrappedSecretId":"2179ad51-cfb5-03de-dad7-2c25746b38e3",
   "vaultAddr":"https://vault:8200",
   "ttl":60
}
```

## CA bundle
If you are connecting to Vault over https (highly recommended for production), you will find the CA bundle for Vault in
the file `ca.crt`. Use the CA bundle when connecting to Vault using your application, so that the identity of Vault is
verified.

## Configuration
The project consists of 2 containers, a controller container that watches the Kubernetes cluster and pushes `secret_id`s
to pods and an init container that receives the `secret_id` and exchanges it for an auth token. The controller is
configured using a YAML file and the init container uses environment variables. The init container also requires
configuration using Kubernetes annotations.

For full examples of configuration files, check out the ConfigMaps in the [quick start](deployments/quick-start/kubernetes-vault.yaml) and [secured](deployments/secured-external-ca/kubernetes-vault.yaml) examples.

### Kubernetes-Vault controller configuration
The Kubernetes-Vault is configured using a YAML file. We recommend using a ConfigMap to mount the file and any other files
( such as certificates and private keys, if using an external CA) into the controller's pod.

The controller automatically expands any environment variables used in the configuration specified using the `$VARIABLE` or 
`${VARIABLE}` notation. For example, if you set `raftDir: ${MY_DIR}` and set the `$MY_DIR` environment variable to `/tmp`, it 
 expands to: `raftDir: /tmp`.
 
By default, the controller looks for configuration in `kubernetes-vault.yml` in the current working directory, but you
can override this by setting the `-config` flag with the absolute path to your config file.

The available configuration options in the config file are:

#### raftDir *(optional)*
The location where raft data should be stored. By default this is: `/var/lib/kubernetes-vault/`.

If you want to set a custom location:
```yaml
raftDir: /my/custom/raft/dir
```

#### vault *(required)*
Settings for communicating with the Vault server. It contains nested properties:

* addr *(required)*
The address of the Vault server. For example, `http://vault:8200`.

* token *(required)*
A renewable and periodic Vault token to be used by the Kubernetes-Vault controller.

* tls *(optional)*
If Vault is secured using TLS (https), then you need to set one of the following:

  * vaultCABackends *(optional)*
  If Vault uses itself as a certificate authority, provide the list of root PKI backends here.

  * caCert *(optional)*
  If Vault uses an external CA, provide the absolute path to a file containing the CA certificates in PEM format.

##### Example (using Vault as a CA):
```yaml
vault:
  addr: http://vault:8200
  token: 91526d9b-4850-3405-02a8-aa29e74e17a5
  tls:
    vaultCABackends:
      - root-ca
```

#### kubernetes *(required)*
Settings for talking to the Kubernetes API server.

* watchNamespace *(required)*
The namespace to watch for newly created pods. If you want to watch for pods across multiple namespaces, you can prefix
it with `~` followed by a regex pattern. For example, using `~^(staging|default)$` will watch for pods in both the
`staging` and `default` namespaces.

  **IMPORTANT**: If you are using regex to watch multiple namespaces, make sure `vault.addr` is set to the FULL DNS name of
  your Vault server. For example: `https://vault.default:8200` or `https://vault.staging:8200`. This is because the Vault
  address is pushed to the watched pods, and those pods will only be able to communicate with pods outside their own
  namespace using the FULL DNS name.

* serviceNamespace *(required)*
The Kubernetes namespace the Kubernetes-Vault controller's service is in. This parameter and the `service` parameter 
is used to discover other Kubernetes-Vault controllers to form a cluster.

* service *(required)*
The Kubernetes service being used by the Kubernetes-Vault controller. Used in conjunction with `serviceNamespace` so
that it can discover other Kubernetes-Vault controllers to form a cluster.

##### Example:
```yaml
kubernetes:
  # For watchNamespace, you can use a regex by prefixing it with ~. For example: ~^(staging|default)$
  watchNamespace: default
  # Note the use of an environment variable here, which will be expanded by the controller
  serviceNamespace: ${KUBERNETES_NAMESPACE}
  service: kubernetes-vault
```

#### prometheus *(optional)*
Configuration for the Prometheus endpoint.

* tls *(optional)*
TLS configuration for the Prometheus endpoint. You can use Vault as the CA or an external CA. If using Vault as the CA,
you must set `vaultCertBackend`, `vaultCertRole`, `vaultCABackends`. Otherwise, set `certFile`, `certKey`, and `caCert`
if using an external CA.

  * vaultCertBackend *(optional)*
The Vault PKI backend to be used to issue certificates for securing the Prometheus metrics endpoint.

  * vaultCertRole *(optional)*
The Vault PKI role to be used to issue certificates for securing the Prometheus metrics endpoint.

  * vaultCABackends *(optional)*
If you want to enable client TLS authentication against the Prometheus scrappers, set the list of Vault PKI backend
being used as a certificate authority for those scrappers here.

  * certFile *(optional)*
If using an external CA, provide the absolute path to the certificate in PEM format here.

  * certKey *(optional)*
If using an external CA, provide the absolute path to the key for the certificate in PEM format here.

  * caCert *(optional)*
If you want to enable client TLS authentication against the Prometheus scrappers, provide the absolute path to the file
containing the root certificates in PEM format here.

##### Example:
```yaml
prometheus:
  tls:
    # Note that vaultCABackends is not set, so TLS client authentication for the scrappers will not be 
    # enabled.
    vaultCertBackend: intermediate-ca
    vaultCertRole: kubernetes-vault
```

### Init container configuration
The init containers are configured using environment variables and Kubernetes annotations.

#### Environment variables

| Environment Variable |                                                            Description                                                            | Required |          Default Value           |                Example                 |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| CREDENTIALS_PATH     | The location where the Vault token and CA Bundle (if it exists) will be written.                                                  | `no`     | `/var/run/secrets/boostport.com` | `/var/run/my/path`                     |
| LOG_LEVEL            | The log level. Valid values are `debug` and `error`.                                                                              | `no`     | `debug`                          | `debug`                                |
| RETRIEVE_TOKEN       | Whether to login using the `secret_id` and `role_id` to retrieve the auth token.                                                  | `no`     | `true`                           | `false`                                |
| UNWRAP_SECRET        | Whether to unwrap the `secret_id`                                                                                                  | `no`     | `true`                           | `false`                                |
| TIMEOUT              | Maximum amount of time to wait for the wrapped `secret_id` to be pushed. Valid time units are `ns`, `us`, `ms`, `s`, `m` and `h`. | `no`     | `5m`                             | `120s`                                 |
| VAULT_ROLE_ID        | The Vault role id.                                                                                                                | `yes`    | `none`                           | `313b0821-4ff6-1df8-54dd-c3eea5d3b8b1` |

#### Pod annotations

| Annotation                              | Description                         | Required  | Default Value | Example       |
|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------|---------------|---------------|
| pod.boostport.com/vault-approle         | The Vault role.                     | `yes`     | `none`        | `sample-app`  |
| pod.boostport.com/vault-init-container  | The name of the init container.     | `yes`     | `none`        | `install`     |

## Metrics
Kubernetes-Vault uses [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) for metrics reporting. It exposes these metrics over the `/metrics` endpoint over http or https.

For more information about metrics, read the guide on [metrics](metrics.md).

## Troubleshooting
See the [troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting.md).

## Development
PRs are highly welcomed!

We use glide as our dependency manager. To work on the project, install glide, then run `glide install --strip-vendor`.

Docker is used to build the binaries, so you need to have docker installed.

The project also comes with a few scripts to simplify building binaries and docker containers and pushing docker containers.
Simply run `build.sh` to build the binaries. To build and push images, simplify run `build-images.sh`.
Running `build-images.sh` also automatically runs `build.sh`.

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2 License.
